My problem right now actually from from
many ways is not the models as it is
like how do I deal with my new found
powers? Cloud desktop is taking up 400%
CPU. I wasn't even using Cloud desktop.
Are you sure it wasn't talking to
notebook? Well, a lot of these
contributions are actually not the work
that they're doing, but it is all kinds
of side projects.
What do you think will be the next major
slop fork?
Hey Armin.
Welcome back.
Wait, am I welcoming you back or am I
welcoming the audience?
So hey everybody, this is State of
Agenta Coding. That's the name we're
going with. Armin, who are you? What do
you What are you doing here? Um yeah, my
name is Armin. I um I work on a startup
that I started with a friend of mine
called in uh called Arendelle.
And I think by the time this video goes
out there's probably a public uh
waitlist you can subscribe to for our
product called Lephos. But I will not
teach anymore on that.
So my name's Ben Vinegar. I'm a um
web application developer, co-founder of
this company called Modom. We're
building like your auto triage
product manager. It's an AI thing. Um I
do a lot of AI coding as well, too.
And uh so welcome back. This is the
fourth time we've done this.
All right. So I mean the way we've been
doing this now is we start off by just
like revisiting some of the things we
talked about in the last episode.
Um
cuz it's fun cuz things are moving so
fast. Um we try to make monthly
predictions.
>> [laughter]
>> I still think that's like ridiculous. We
try to make monthly predictions and then
just see where we are in a month. Um
I'm going to start like there's one I
think that has a very obvious answer.
I'm going to save that to the end. So
let's start with this one. I asked you I
asked you, will Google come back with a
meaningfully kind of engage this agentic
coding community and you were just like,
"No."
>> [snorts]
[laughter]
>> I mean, you you gave a reasonable answer
for why you thought that was true. Were
you wrong? Were you right? What do you
think? One of the things that happened,
I think, is that people actually ended
up using anti-gravity subscription with
open claw.
And there was a little boo-hoo for a
couple of days where Google started to
take away the anti-gravity part of their
Google subscription, whatever their
subscription is called. Uh so, I think
it's like negative progress in a way. I
see a lot of people talking about Gemini
for programming. Um
So, it hasn't materially improved, I
think.
This morning, if you saw this on X, I
was running the numbers of what are the
most popular CLI
coding agents. And I don't know if this
was surprising or not surprising, but
Gemini CLI is actually pretty high.
At least it's kind of in the mix at
around 700,000 weekly downloads, which
put it like number five behind Claude
and Codex CLI and open code. I think
then it was Gemini. So, kind of like in
the mix, not to be dismissed. We just
don't hear about it a lot. Is that fair?
I think it's a little bit of the same
situation with with Cursor, which is
the there are different people that use
it. They're not necessarily hanging out
on Twitter. I was talking to a friend at
Google. They enjoy using Gemini CLI.
It's probably pretty good. So, I'm not
clear if they
>> Actually, that's what I was going to
ask. Isn't Isn't the whole thing that
they moved to anti-gravity? Isn't that
like what's supposed to happen? Did that
not happen? I don't know. I don't use
it, but
>> They didn't bring up anti-gravity in
that conversation, so it could be. Last
episode, we talked a little bit about
the popularity of open claw. Everybody
understands that. I did explore buying a
lobster outfit to wear on this today,
Arman, as a joke.
>> [laughter]
>> Just to just to mess with you, they
didn't ship it to Canada. So,
um
So, you know, we were talking about the
popularity of Open Claw, but we're not
we're this is not a personal agent kind
of show. We were just talking about how
good it could be as a as a coding
assistant. And as part of our
predictions, Arman you said, "Hey, I
think that I think that harnesses are
going to be a big deal. Like now that
we've seen the power of what a kind of
unlocked personal agent could do, I
think we're going to see people figuring
out, 'Hey, I need a version of this that
I understand. I'm going to try and lock
it down.' You're going to see a rise of
this."
Where are we? It's been a It's been
about a month. So, I think we definitely
as so far see like there are two things
emerging. One of which is like just
clear-cut sandbox solutions. I think
they were already there before, but
there are a few more. I think there are
a lot of people trying this kind of
stuff. And there are many more people
trying to build their own claws. Even
Copilot, I think, introduced like claw
as a term for like personal agent
at the beginning of the month. Um
beginning of February. Mid-February, I
don't know. Time passes. But it's
surprisingly, I think for me, is that
most of these attempts are actually
still piggybacking on top of Open Claw.
So, there there there's like there are
people like I see still tweets where
people sort of help others set up Open
Claw. And there's like this
um like do a thing um to get a friend a
subscription and then set up Open Claw.
So,
there are not that many companies yet
that are saying like, "Oh, we have a
better claw available." What I'm sort of
surprised by is that there wasn't
actually a big move towards sandboxing
coding agent itself. I think there's
there was a bit of like sandboxing for
um for for Open Claw and things like
that, but there was less so for now that
we are all bypassing permissions all the
time, how do we make it more secure?
This will help date when we recorded
recorded this very clearly. It's It's
March 6th. So, Cursor, I feel like has
made some noise in the last week or two.
I feel like they are getting into bigger
sandboxes in terms of what um cursor is
capable of or perhaps even getting a
little bit more into, you know, Claude
co-work type stuff where they introduced
automations like being able to trigger
um cursor cursor cloud agents
based on like pull requests and other
things. Do you not feel that that fits
or you just like, "Nah, that's more of
like a workflow addition." I don't know.
I I really don't know. Um
what I had in mind was something I guess
slightly different. I think in this
sense it's like, "Okay, this the sandbox
definitely in the cloud." So, it's like
it's it's sitting there helping you run
this. I was assuming we're going to like
any sort of thing that you run you sort
of have a sandbox around it, but that so
far didn't really emerge. I agree the
language has been more from
I I don't know. I think we're seeing it
from both sides. We're seeing it from
people of like, "Hey, what if you had
open cloud but it was a little more
locked down?" And then it's like, "Gee,
these like cloud environments that we've
been spinning up that have been really
locked down historically, we're going to
open those more up if that makes sense.
Yeah. It's definitely opening up right
now. Like even even Google released a
CLI for workspaces.
Um so, it's like this. Right now there's
not a lot of desire to lock down yet. I
think there's like more of a desire to
get more people access to crazy LLM
stuff. So,
maybe it's just already. We'll see.
Yeah, yeah. There's some I think it's
like what is the sweet spot, you know,
uh is what people are are searching for,
right? Where I think a lot of people are
like open cloud is too much, but there's
something there's some there's some
place that we're trying to find from
different sides.
Uh that's my perception. Um I also built
my own team-based agent I which I feel
like I need to acknowledge in some way.
>> Welcome to the agent club.
>> [laughter]
>> But I'm very, you know, like I'm very
sen- I don't like I don't like plugging
things. I don't like plugging things.
So, but I guess I want to bring it up
only from the perspective that I've been
experimenting with it and it's
interesting.
Um we call it BaudBot, b a u d b o t.
It's a modem thing. And
that was mostly because I just started
playing around with Pi. I actually got
very serious with Pi over the last
month. I finally started listening. And
it be and I knew that Pi was sort of one
of the underpinnings for OpenClaw and I
was like, "Man, this is interesting." We
didn't talk about this, but I was
playing with like your some of your Pi
extensions, like your tmux extensions.
And I started to sort of identify how I
could use use that to create sub-agents
and next thing I knew, I had a um, I had
a sort of coding agent that you could
talk to over Slack that's
um,
where I just gave it the whole Linux
machine. That's that's my sandbox. Here
you go.
Here's, you know,
Um, but we gave it like a a Linux user.
Um, and if that's interesting, you can
go take a look. I guess the other thing
you also touched on and I don't know if
this is a prediction, but more of a
long-term trend comment, which was the
end of the IDE.
Although I think you actually said, I
don't know if it's this month or the
month after. Is the IDE dead? I don't
know if it's dead quite yet. And and
this is maybe where we could talk about
uh Cursor is continuing to be
successful. So, I think the IDE is still
there, but like here's my question, how
often did you open the IDE?
Oof.
He He got me. I probably opened up the
ID IDE the the least I ever have. It's
true. I could talk about my setup, but I
think that this is like a good segue for
Hey, we had some new models come out.
Um, right when we recorded last time,
Opus 4.6 and ChatGPT 5.2 Codex. Man, I
hate that they're so long-winded.
Um, had just come out and I think that
historically
you and I have talked about like, "Man,
we don't want to have these like gut
reaction opinions." Like we didn't want
this these new models to be out for like
a few days and go, "Oh, it's the best
thing ever."
Right? Um, however, it's been closer to
a month. Thoughts on the new models. But
at the old models, sorry. The old new
models.
The old new models.
>> Um I um I built myself a pie extension
that could show me which models I used
the most, and it turns out I almost
exclusively migrated away from Opus to
Codex
um 5.3. So, this is what I have been
using for the most part.
Um I think it's just it's a good model.
It works for me in pie, and I don't have
to break anyone's terms of service. My
thoughts in general are is like they are
actually all really good. And so, I at
this point like what like as we're
recording, this is like already day
three of I think 5.4
or two, I don't know. I I really don't
know, but it's like I I have no opinions
on it, and I had very little opinions on
5.3. It's like they're all good. Like
at this point I feel like I'm just like
upgrading it as okay. I don't know.
Can't say much more than that. It works
for me. Like my problem right now
actually for for many ways is not the
models as it is like how do I deal with
my new found powers? Like that is that's
a non-model problem all of a sudden.
Okay, so we should
my new found powers, right?
I think most people see this, but that
that's not clear, right? I think that's
like our job a little bit, Arman, is to
maybe help people see what we're seeing.
So, my sense, I think you agree, is you
know, we experienced another step
function with Opus 4.6 and and you know,
GPT 5.3 Codex. That that's for both of
them. They're both good. I use both
probably about 50/50. I wanted to be
prepared. I wanted to understand
for this for this talk.
Um
When Opus 4.6 came out, like man, my
number of commits went up really high. I
think I mentioned this last time. Like
what is my vibe check on whether a model
is good is like am I enjoying myself a
little more? Do I feel like I'm I'm like
a kid in a candy store
and things are getting done and I I
don't want to put the laptop down. I
felt like that again for this new wave
of models. Does that does that track for
you? Yeah, for sure. It's it's again in
sort of like a phase of feels like you
want to do even more as unhealthy as it
sounds, I think.
Yeah, [snorts]
man, this is a
It's a dark episode of like bleeding of
our emotions.
>> [laughter]
>> I think like here's here's how I here's
how I felt like the last 2 weeks, which
is basically um I I I mentioned this
before. I still don't do like work trees
and whatever like I have like a bunch of
agents. I don't have as many as Peter
has but like I have like a whole screen
full of it but I like I because like
these models actually surprisingly slow,
I think in many ways. Um
I just I always feel in need of like
finding another thing on the side to do.
>> [laughter]
>> Um and I had a little bit of a period in
between where I felt like I'm past this
point but now now it feels like uh
I'm there again. I don't know.
Sort of an up and down but but
definitely I feel like I'm burning my
tokens
with new experiments.
And this is like I think you can look
across other things that are happening
in industry, right? Um things that
happened this week like I think uh Toby
Lutke at Shopify
seemed to be writing a lot of code. He
he's been commenting about it. So,
you're seeing people also just like
comment about it. And these aren't
people who picked up like agentic coding
tools this month. These are people who
have been playing with them the whole
time and you're seeing that they all
kind of experienced a step function. Um
Gary Tan, I have stopped drinking
because I want to be sober for every
moment of the day so that I don't stop
prompting agents.
Um
I feel that I have I have thought about
that with carbs. Like I carbs make me
sleepy, so I
I need to have more salad so I can
prompt more. Um
What have you given up so that you can
prompt more
Marco? Write it in the comments.
>> [laughter]
>> Right?
Peptides or whatever. Like I I heard
that's a big thing.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, yeah.
Um
Uh and and then there was that um you
highlighted this before the before we
started, but um
Rise, who was at Versel, now is at
OpenCode,
um had this like viral website called
areyougoingexponential.com?
Is that what it's called? Are you
exponential? Are you Are you going
exponential.rise.dev?
Dot rise.dev. It's branded. Very well
done.
And how would you describe this this
website, this viral website?
It basically takes your all-time
um
GitHub history of like from when you
opened your account for the first time
and sort of plots like contributions. I
think it's actually only Yeah, it's
contributions by I guess whatever week
or something. And and for a lot of
people that graph is up into the right
um very significantly so.
Um I too have
>> [laughter]
>> a noticeable increase sort of past
November, I would say.
And you too. Okay, I've noticed.
This This reminds me of the old What was
that? Like, you know, what does it take
to have your
your GitHub graph look like this? The
answer is
um use some of these new models, I
guess.
Um
I don't know if there's a lot to say
here, right? Like I I think
>> Well, I have I have some thoughts on
this because like I was going into my
numbers um because
David David Cramer um said like, "Hey,
this like are these numbers real for you
or not?
In a way.
>> [laughter]
>> Um because like I I David and I we had a
lot of contributions I think over the
years on GitHub. Like at one point there
was like this global GitHub rankings and
we did quite well. Actually I think I'm
not sure if like the number is actually
correct right now because I'm not sure
if it attributes um historically correct
and with with some of the repos I
hidden and whatever.
Um
but um according to that website um I
actually have my all-time max
contributions now. And and that includes
like all the history when I wrote Flask
and Click and whatever.
Um but here's the thing when I actually
went in and sort of sliced down my
repositories by like stuff I do for work
and then all the other things. I
actually they individual outputs are
actually not that different. Um
a lot of my contributions are actually
at the moment all kinds of experiments
that I'm running that I actually don't
consider it to be continuing this way.
Um and I I would love to go later on
into some of the experiments that I've
been doing from Christmas to now
out of curiosity. Um but but I I
actually think that for some people that
might be true. That where a lot of these
contributions are actually not the work
that they're doing but it is all kinds
of side projects.
It's true that a lot of my commits came
from um
also really having a lot of fun with
BodBot. So was I So
this is actually a really good comment.
Like did I feel that my modem
contributions
went up dramatically?
No. But was I doing more things in
parallel sort of at the same time in a
less intensive kind of way? Yes. Is that
kind of similar? Yeah. I also have a
>> on private things while working.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah. But personal commits going on
simultaneously now.
This is a not a thing that I used to do
in the past I think. I built a whole
project today that you might find fun.
See I've already forgotten what I called
it because I made it today and I
registered a a and I've already I've
already forgotten what it is.
Hey, check this out. glance.sh
I got into running a lot more of the
agents and writing code on separate
machines.
Mhm.
I'm not like a hardcore Linux user. I'd
never done this before, but I do think
that coding agents have made Linux far
more approachable. You know, if you use
um a pie with your tmux extension, it
actually becomes very easy to
um you know, open new windows and
whatnot. You know, I knew a little bit
about tmux which lets you basically have
a session you can detach and reattach to
it even if you disconnect via
from SSH. So, I'm using SSH, get into
the box, spinning up a tmux
uh session which is like a window
manager, remote window manager. So, this
is all over the terminal. And if you've
if you know, as Armon was kind of saying
like if you've actually really accepted
the idea that you can write a lot of
code without the editor, it becomes a
very effective way to write code,
especially it when you've got like
another another CPU and RAM that's not
on your MacBook that can continue
operating when you shut your MacBook
down. Uh I'm often on the go. This
project
um
which is very small and not a big deal
is one challenge I had. There's so
There's a couple challenges you have
when you are sort of like trying to talk
to agents over SSH and terminals which
is I like to copy and paste screenshots
and say, "Hey, I don't like how this
looks." And I found that very uh a bit
of a challenge. So,
yeah. So, glance.sh is a little bit kind
of like bringing back um
you know, tiny URL, I guess, where I can
paste a screenshot and then get um a
URL, but actually it it copies a prompt.
It copies an agent friendly prompt to
just sort of one shot and say, "Hey,
here's the screenshot. Go take a look."
Does that make sense? Yeah, makes sense.
I I might have built something like this
myself.
I didn't come here, by the way to plan
to
hawk this, but you just brought up this
example. Dude, I I can this whole thing
got built in 2 hours 6 like at 10:00
a.m.
You know, and right now it's live. Right
now it's live. It's on you know, it's
hosted on Vercel. It's It's It's
It has a I bought a domain at you know,
this the state of the tools to just have
something like this
happening and I did it you know, in
another window while I was doing my
regular work. Does that make sense?
This gives me an idea.
So, I I I just
Let me do the following. Random stuff
that I have done while actually trying
to do work or doing work.
I don't I don't know if that's a
category.
No, I came up with Maybe we should be
doing this in general going forward, but
like here So, I have this table, this
standing table, right? I've I found a
node Bluetooth module to control this up
and down movement. But you know how my
node is like eventually it should break
so it's just it was broken for like a
year and a half.
Right? Friend of mine said like hey, can
you just fix it? I was like okay, I'm
going to fix it. But the way I fix it is
like rewrite the whole thing in Rust,
rewrite the whole thing in in Go. And so
now I have two working versions, one of
which in Rust, one of which in Go. I
didn't look at it. It just works now
again.
It's like one of the many projects just
like
I I I swear I spent like 10 minutes
active on it. And the funny thing was
cuz it's real hardware, I noticed my
table moving while the agent was
connecting to it and doing stuff.
So,
it's great, right?
And and that was fully just on the side.
Like that probably ate a bunch of tokens
and a bunch of commits on my GitHub. We
had a a company offsite, our first
company offsite. We played Risk there. I
was thinking afterwards it would be
great to have an online version of that.
So, I built an online version of Risk
that I can play with others now.
Again, I didn't spend any time on it.
It's just happened while I was driving.
And that kind of stuff is bizarre.
Actually shockingly related to the
discussion of this week is um
there's a there's a very well-known
library called readline,
uh which famously is GPL licensed. And
when you when you go to like Python and
you write some stuff in it and you want
to have like control R to go to history
and stuff like this,
um it uses readline. Um I was 2 years
ago I was kind of interested in like
redistributing Python, and that often
comes with that readline because of the
GPL thingy. Long story short, I had it
generate
like random stuff to sort of reverse
engineer without like looking at the
source code readline.
Um that's one of the projects I keep
going on the side is just to
re-implement readline from scratch. And
I I never look at it. I just like I'm
still at sort of building um
like test cases basically without like
the end to like they have to be 100%
line coverage for test cases. And
they're all like randomly generated. And
then the next step will be implement the
library.
But that's all happening somewhere in my
commits there, right?
And all of these projects are sliced in
a way where I don't have to look.
They're just happening there. Somewhere
there's always a terminal doing some
progress on some of them. Because like
maybe it's going to be interesting,
maybe it's not going to be interesting,
right?
Like
>> Mhm. I that that that is new for me
since December, I think. That that
wasn't there before in in that form.
The amount of oversight that you need
today versus even a couple months ago is
lower,
which is allowing you sort of scale your
like creativity, creative projects to
just kind of go
while you're doing other things. Is that
fair? Yeah. And and it has replaced one
pattern I had before because the pattern
I had before was I have three terminals
running with three checkouts on the same
project and I only do that. Because
context switching was such a pain. Yeah.
But now because some of them I don't
even context switch over to it. Like
happens. Everybody's like I don't
think about it. There's like all of a
sudden there's like 50 commits over
there. And like that's fine because the
scope of that project is actually so
that it creates some temporary
infrastructure that I can I don't
actually care about how it is for as
long as sort of it it measures up
against something.
Um
So yeah, that that I think came with
with the new models for sure.
My one takeaway from this is when Toby's
telling us he's making 100 commits a
day, 90 of those are probably him making
like a bunch of FY F1 race car fan
sites.
Does this make Does this make sense?
Like
>> Yeah.
You know, he's really into racing.
I I'm just teasing. I have no idea, but
it's possible that he you know, he's
making a whole bunch of crazy stuff like
on the side and and people could people
can be portraying You know what? This is
actually a good way that people You
highlighted for me and maybe for other
people, which is
man, it's easy to see people who are
proclaiming to do so many things and to
feel like that's all concentrated, you
know, I am it's all entrepreneurial
business stuff. I'm enriching myself and
to feel like you're missing out. But you
know, behind
you know, the reality for many people is
we're just messing around.
I think this is exactly what's
happening. I think this is exactly
what's happening. Like And I think like
even if the even if people are putting
all this energy into actual like
business things and to some degree I
think that's happening because like
there is evidence of like productivity
going up. Yeah. Um
the simultaneous thing is happening is
like and I I I tweeted about this, but I
think other people also pointed it out,
which is that the quality of code is
going down. Like of software that I'm
using.
I'm routinely using software now where I
know it's being it's like
this is no longer the quality bar that
once was there and you only have to open
I don't want to on cloud code but
like it's a good example of like that
software over the years has become over
the years over the months has become
very memory and CPU intensive it just
randomly locks up now
the other day I did this thing where
like I couldn't quit out of it it's just
like it was slash quit and it was just
like oh goodbye and then it was slash
quit and it was just like nice to talk
to you
because of it was submitting quit as a
message instead of actually quitting out
of the program.
Days that happening where like if we
haven't found a good way yet to steer
that output into into putting that into
one code base
with a lot of people. I'll take a
take a moment here to say this is true
before we started the recording and
we're trying to close all of our
processes the things that might
interrupt this recording you know I
opened up activity monitor and cloud
desktop is taking up 400% CPU I wasn't
even using cloud desktop.
>> [snorts]
>> Or not knowingly.
>> [laughter]
>> I you know I just had it on in the in
the in the background. I'm sure it
wasn't talking to multiple.
>> [laughter]
>> I it was probably mining Bitcoin and and
extracting all of my keys and and
something else. This is a good segue I I
think
I don't know if it's a segue I think
we're I think we're here which is Arman
ahead of time was like hey let's talk
about vibe forks slop forks okay.
I have so many thoughts on this.
Why don't you start by just
defining what it what is a slop fork
what is a vibe fork like? The the the
term I think comes from Marcel
because like someone forked next but
they didn't actually fork it they
re-implemented against the test suite
and it's called V next so it sits on top
of wheat, but it implements the next API
service area.
And but but the thing is that didn't
start with V next. That that idea of
actually here we take the test suite and
we target it. Um that is going on since
November earlier. And we actually I
think we talked about this in one form
or another on this show because the
original version of this is
um the browser that was implemented from
scratch or the compiler that was
implemented from scratch which is
basically here's a reference behavior.
Agent, please run for as long as you
need to to target this reference
behavior. And out comes a browser, out
comes a compiler. So So that is not new.
I think what is absolutely new is that
is that now happening with software
people actually run.
So um V next is being used. Um there's
another project um that actually Vercel
made which is called just bash which
implements bash in TypeScript. Now you
can obviously argue that it's a
completely new thing because it targets
TypeScript, but it's the same principle,
right? Which is um here's a behavior
that you that you already know exists
and now you take a coding harness and
you have it implement an implementation
from scratch. Um and I think the most
interesting one this week um actually
relates to what I said earlier about
readline which is one of the motivations
why people started looking into this is
to create an implementation that doesn't
have the same license requirements as
one of the most popular ones.
Um
and so um
that was my motivation why I wanted a
readline implementation because readline
famously is GPL. I wanted a non-GPL
version. But someone who actually
maintained an LGPL MPL library for 12
years has re-implemented this which is
char det. Let's Let's Let's take a
moment here. We are licensed nerds.
Okay.
Um what do you mean GPL LGPL and what
does that achieve? If we take sort of
like a um like a a line um of of of
freedoms that a license can give you.
All the way to one side of the line, you
would have public domain or or
unlicensed, which basically says like do
whatever you want. Like it's it's out
there. You cannot even claim copyright
on it. Or you there's no copyright claim
on it. Um in some jurisdictions, you
cannot even do that, but for instance,
if a non-human creates an
a thing, then usually that's it's not
copyrighted. Then all the way on the
other side usually have proprietary
software, which is like there's a
license on it that gives you no rights
at all to do any derivative work on it.
And somewhere in the middle,
there are a bunch of open source
licenses or free software licenses. And
the free software family of licenses,
usually called copyleft licenses, they
have a restriction on it that says you
this has to be open source going forward
or it has to be
copyleft going forward. So, it is using
the copyright system to enforce that any
usage of that or any derivative work
continues to be under the same license.
Um that's that's the TLDR. And
in principle, that's a good idea. In
practice, it runs into a whole bunch of
issues often when you want to use this
software in a context where you cannot
uphold the license requirements. Um and
um
LGPL and GPL, they're sort of then AGPL,
they're sort of they're all different
forms of has to be open. And the
mechanism by which it enforces that is
uh is different forms of of basically
defining what a derivative work starts
or ends. Um so, GPL for instance says
like if you link this together, if you
combine it into a larger derivative
work, then the whole thing has to be
GPL.
LGPL is like the library version of that
where only the library itself has to be
open, so you can technically combine it
together with um
a non-GPL code. But um, there are some
even if you like to build open source
software, there's some situations where
you cannot include GPL code. And so,
there was always a desire to,
um,
to create an even more open version of
it, even at the risk of taking it then
that someone can take it make it closed
source.
Um, so so there was there was some
historic reasons why a bunch of
libraries that got very popular, but
were under GPL license. There were
always some people like me that wanted
them to be not GPL.
>> [laughter]
>> You have software that is licensed in a
in a sort of viral copyleft restrictive
way, and people are discovering,
surprise, I can have an LM generate the
same behavior.
Mhm.
And I can put whatever license I want on
that.
That opens up a whole bunch of
questions. I don't even know how much we
want to get into,
right? Um, like does GPL matter anymore?
That's a good question, right? Like
>> [laughter]
>> Look, I here's here's the thing, like I
I'm I'm I'm very well known like if
people read my blog over the years, I
have written about why I don't like the
GPL for basically 17 years. So, I'm I'm
the most biased person in this room
when it comes to this, and I have like I
have tried to re-license projects in the
past. Licenses are becoming less and
less enforceable
because it's become so easy to like take
something that already exists that you
have some abstract access to and create
something that mimics that behavior
without actually following the
implementation or potentially not
following implementation. Um, and so I
don't I don't I'm not a lawyer. I don't
know how the courts are going to decide
and where this is going to land. Uh,
this is happening, right? And I think,
uh, it has it will have some pretty big
ramifications as it goes on, but
>> [snorts]
>> it's fascinating. Open Source Initiative
lawyers, OSI lawyers, don't come after
us.
These are These are opinions.
Software licenses are a polarizing
topic. For some people,
they are like the most boring thing on
the world, but for others, it is the
most incendiary
topic imaginable. And there will be a
bunch of nasty comments probably, too.
We started this section. We're calling
it slop forks, but your And why where
did that term slop fork come from? I'm
going to be careful here. You mentioned
Guillermo at Vercel made this up. And
hats off to you if you did coin this,
Guillermo, cuz it's a it's a it's a good
phrase. How I understand this V next, if
that's how you pronounce it, V next,
right? Cloudflare made that. It's a
port. There had been some kind of
struggle to get sort of a version of
Next.js to work sort of 100% on on
different platforms, especially like
Cloudflare's platform is a is a
different platform. And so, they're
like, "Hey, look, there's a test case.
We reimplemented it. It's great."
Um but then, you know, the flip side of
that is that the Vercel team is like,
"Well, hey, you have all these CVEs
that, you know, we're patching." And you
know, those were already fixed in the
original implementation, but they're not
fixed in this version. And their
contention, and part of the part of the
language of slop fork is you're
presenting this as a superior
piece of software because of technology,
LLMs, or whatever.
Our contention is that's not true.
Flip side is you just explained to me
like, "Hey, there are definitely some
pieces of software
where actually it is totally superior."
Or not, I'm not sure. I'll take your
word for it. I guess I'm This is sort of
an open question, like we know that they
can make slop code. So,
they definitely can, folks. They
definitely slop, yeah.
They definitely
Yeah, yeah. So, is it better? Is it it
like Or is it Is it just like anything?
It depends on the tool smith and the
person who is controlling the slop
generator. Statistically speaking, most
of them will probably be way worse. I
think it's just is that's just most
likely going to happen. Um at least for
a while because these models are like
part of the reason why it's actually
appealing to make a fork like this is is
not just because you care about changing
the license. It is because um you could
just try it, right? And so, as I
mentioned earlier, a bunch of us are now
running these projects on the side not
really caring what the output is. So, I
think a lot of the Slop forks are
literally like this. Like, oh, I
re-implemented this.
Um but
they could also be way better.
Um and one of the reason for this is
like if you actually think like what is
the value of an open source project? At
the end of the day, the value of an open
source project is actually
standardization to some degree. So, like
you build something that has a lot of
users, and because it has a lot of
users,
but everybody sort of piles up on that,
and and there's there's some util- like
that provides some value just by the
fact that there's a maintainer, if
there's security issues that are being
fixed on it. But some of the most
popular open source projects also have
some of the worst source code
historically because they they were
built at one point, and they grew over
time, and it just turned into like a
a very well-adopted piece of software,
but it is also grown. And if you've ever
looked at the Vim source code, it's not
amazing. It gave birth to a
re-implementation called Neovim.
Um I think it's a re-implementation.
Um in parts because it was hard to
maintain for anyone but the original
author. Um OpenSSL famously underwent a
bunch of re-
attempts to rewrite it and clean it up
because it was full of security issues
for many years, and it was also very
critical. So, the the I think the the
key part is going to be will there be
vibe-coded standardized pieces of
software that everybody wants to use, um
or will everybody build their own one? I
think is is going to be an interesting
question here.
Um but the the the real challenge for V
next as an example will be can V next
actually as a project survive and
attract a lot of users and grow on its
own
because it's at this point it's mostly
slop output but it could become slop
output that has a lot of users because
the value that provides is a very
important for some users. Um and I don't
know I I I really don't know. I'm going
to
go on top of that to say look as much as
people are celebrating the fact that
they made a browser they made a compiler
or they made a fork. What we haven't
seen yet I don't think is
a real you know put on a pedestal
project that everybody enjoys and uses
and becomes kind of the facto thing.
Maybe maybe a couple of these like lower
level libraries I could see that. Um
would you agree with that statement like
we haven't quite Like I think that the
first
mass adoption vibe coded project that I
have actually sort of encountered was
open code. Sorry open claw. Open claw is
like a million lines of vibe slop. Yeah
Dax would fight you if you for that
statement.
>> I did not I didn't want to say open code
I want to say open claws. Um damn the
naming but um because most of these
project actually fail to deliver
um
something truly unique and new because
we have only been doing this for a
couple of months right? So we like a
project like now everything sort of
seems to be taking off immediately but
it also doesn't really hold on to its
new found um
popularity as as quickly but like there
will be a project that has been built
six months ago or it's been built right
now and we're going to only be able to
measure its success in like four years
because like if something is really
popular after four years still I think
that's going to be a really important
sign. But that time has not passed yet.
This feels like a good point to maybe
get into
um
our monthly predictions. We've been
talking for a while. Man like every
month is just there's more things we
could probably talk for two straight
hours, but we're going to pull the cord
and go into some predictions. However,
I'm going to change something I'm going
to change my first prediction to you.
What do you think will be the next major
slop fork?
>> [laughter]
>> The next major slop fork? Um
>> Yeah.
You know, so let's say Venus.
>> Yeah, there can be many, but like so
like Yeah. is it not the next one, but
like what what attempted slop fork that
gets some popularity Yes. we will see
next month. Yes.
>> Um
I will give two because I really don't
know if anyone of us is going to make
it, but I think someone is going to
attempt
uh like a a Linux kernel or something
similar. Like a Linux-ish compatible
kernel that is fully web slopped. Um I I
think that might happen. And the other
one that I'm sort of growing to expect
is going to happen is an open source
re-implementation
of a very old proprietary software. And
I have sort of two ideas in mind. One of
which could be something like Microsoft
Word or like Adobe Photoshop. Something
where like it's actually it has a lot of
users and it never had a lot of open
source like competition. Like I think
it's going to be attempted. Very like
everything's possible, so I
I'm like makes sense to me. I'm just
going to throw FFmpeg out there.
You know? Does that make any sense? No.
Presuming based on how you know, the
maturity of that project probably has a
fantastic test suite, inputs, outputs.
You could imagine somebody could do it
pretty I don't know if easily is the
right word. Why would they? I don't
know. It just seems like something that
might happen to me. I don't know. But I
actually do have sort of a prediction
that is a little bit political. Um
This feels like a good place to close
until next time.
Um
All right.
>> Don't
Don't OD.
>> [laughter]
>> Don't OD on open
>> Don't OD on the overtone. Don't OD on
the overtone.
>> Yeah. Don't OD Okay, good. All right.